---
layout: post
title:  "Entry 53"
date:   2020-08-27 01:00:00 +0700
categories: dhammapalo
---
The alms round route changed today and I will be going to Non Daeng for the next two weeks. All in all it was indeed a pleasant path. There was only a single short evil mud section in the middle coated with gravel. The other painful bits could be avoided via a sandy side path so it was comfortable overall. It seemed like Tan M. was being kind as well with his pace as a leader and we still got back at five to seven. I think it will be a nice path to show my parents on. Also I tried tightening the knot at the bottom of the bowl today. I thought if the overall strap was shorter it might help to keep my robes from becoming undone somehow. It ended up worse I think.

The days are definitely getting warmer now although this morning was much cooler than yesterday. I've resorted to sleeping on the sitting platform beneath the kuti with a wet towel on my chest during the day. Upstairs beneath the roof is now too warm to sleep for any extended period of time. The library is still a good place to hide away from the heat and engage in a good read. I'm taken up some non-fiction to take a break from Stillness Flowing.

The nights are getting warm too. I tried to close as many windows as possible because the tukkae like to hide on the other side of the opened window. I've ended up with a massive spider in the room instead. To be honest between the two I think I prefer the tukkaes so I should try and get along with them somehow.