---
layout: post
title:  "Entry 33"
date:   2020-08-08 01:00:00 +0700
categories: dhammapalo
---
The weather has gotten cold again which was great. Not as great though was a wooden hut with little insulation. It's not easy to prepare for since by the time I've fallen asleep at 9pm it's still relatively warm, but then the temperature plummets at around midnight. I've found that there's a weather app on the common Sangha phone so I can prepare better for the future. At least I should keep a blanket within reach so I can feel for it in the dark of night.

Morning after Wan Phra is still Pali-Thai chanting and the morning chanting is definitely better than the evening. That or my toes are getting used to it. Seeing that the temperature had cooled I also decided to brave it with the 2 outer robes once more on the alms round and it was surprisingly fine. I think it's better now that I've gotten used to all the other aspects of the alms round but the robes did still drop pretty low over time.

Many monks followed the abbot to another monastery this morning so there were only a few monks sitting at the meal. It was then Ajahn R.'s job as the deputy abbot to give the morning talk. It was hilarious how relaxed he was, a counterpart to the abbot. Loosely translated from Thai he said, "nothing much really, the abbot is away, yesterday was hot, today is cold, nothing else, let's receive the blessing." I've been charmed by his laid-back nature on multiple occasions but this one takes it.

I ate a bit less to see if it would help with my lathargy since I thought I was perhaps consuming too many carbs. Not at all. I went back to my kuti and slept for almost 2 hours. It could've had something to do with the night before though. I also didn't get to sweep the kuti today which was a shame.

Sangha Tea was interesting as Ajahn K. talked at length about his adventures in the north of Thailand near Chiang Mai. He told us of the different tribes that live close but with vastly different customs and accents, so different that they didn't even understand one another. One tribe would begin their day in the fields by 6am whereas another wouldn't be awake at 8am so he'd have to adjust his alms round accordingly.

Also fascinating was Nen G. (a Tibetan novice on a temporary visit like me) explaining the differences in the ways of the Tibetan monks compared to Thai Theravada monks. The abbot was quick to point out that all the Buddhist lineages and sects share the same core and we should all do as much as we can to support one another. Apparently the monks even dance and sing there, but no alms round as it's too cold.