---
layout: post
title:  "Entry 58"
date:   2020-09-02 01:00:00 +0700
categories: dhammapalo
---
I ended up going to Non Daeng with only Tan B. since Tan M. was fasting and the pace was nice and slow. He spoke of his awareness of how technology has progressed with AI and the like, and how religion and spirituality will become ever more important as we go forward. This morning during morning chanting I got pooped on by a tukkae from the ceiling so I can definitely say that I've been to WPN. Luckily it landed on my lap and it was easy to flick off.

Sangha Tea was interesting as the main topic of discussion was the coronavirus once more. It looks like the situation is getting worse in Bangkok as some returning Thai workers from South Korea somehow escaped quarantine, went out drinking and began spreading the virus at various bars.

After tea, I was making jokes about seeing what people ate at meal times and I shouldn't have mentioned Tan B. by name but I told the Snickers story to another novice. A few days ago, three of us including myself went on the alms round and there was an offering of Snickers for each monk. I looked forward to having it during the meal because it was such a long time since I had anything like it. However when it came to the meal, I saw that Tan B. had taken two for himself when there were only three offered.

I was told that I shouldn't look at what other people took and ate during the meal and judge them for it. I do regret mentioning him by name even if others knew of his habits and preferences. Also it reminded me of my own attachments and desires for various foods which was very apparent after the fact. All of this began because I didn't get what I wanted. If I had learnt to let go of my desire in the first place then I wouldn't be regretting telling the story right now.