---
layout: post
title:  "Entry 63"
date:   2020-09-10 01:00:00 +0700
categories: dhammapalo
---
I decided that today would be my last day of luxury and got up at around four. I didn't get out of bed until six though, some affordances were hard to let go. First I went back to my kuti to wash a few things that I had used and picked up a new bathing cloth to wear. Then I came back to the hospital kuti to pick up everything else that I had to use or wash.

I got to the sala by around 7am and said hi to those along the way and told them that I was fine again. I set up the bowl on the asana and it was nice to be back. The way back to the kuti had become rather alien as the whole path had become covered with leaves.

I spent a lot of time washing everything that I had used at the hospital kuti and also things from my own kuti. Before the meal I went to pay respects to Tan Ajahn and he said it's OK, never mind, being a nice guy as usual. There were two kitchen staff and Wit in the Sala. When we went to pick up the meal there was little compared to the usual but it was still a wonder that there was that much given how few kitchen staff there were and no alms round. Tan Ajahn stressed that we should not waste any food. Some items were almost gone by the time it got to my turn to take the food so I felt really sorry for the novices and the pa kows.

After the meal I spent more time cleaning and hanging things to dry and spent a while in the library looking at the Thai-English transliteration system that Tan B. mentioned. Then I went back to my kuti to do a lot of sweeping and cleaning and by the end it was already afternoon and I was starting to get a small headache again. Maybe I really shouldn't have pushed myself after all. I still haven't retrieved the leftover Nam Pana from the hospital kuti yet.

Not having a schedule after Nam Pana was odd and I wasn't sure what to do. The problem is it gets dark early so everyone goes back to their kutis but it's still warm and rather uncomfortable. But that's what I did anyway after showering. I'd expect the other monks to be practising privately and doing the evening chanting themselves. I just laid there on the floor for ages listening to the news on the radio. After a while I took some medicine and went to sleep.